---
sidebar_position: 1
---

# Migrating from v1 to v2

:::note

There was no actual "v1" version as we only started properly versioning Judgels starting from v2.

We consider that you are on "v1" if you deployed individual legacy microservices: `jophiel`, `sandalphon`, `uriel` etc. instead of the newer `judgels-server` monolith.

:::

### A. Migration overview

Below is a table summarizing the differences between v1 and v2.

|Area|v1|v2|
|----|--|--|
|Ansible playbook env files|- `dist/hosts`<br/>- `dist/env.yml`|- `env/hosts.ini`<br/>- `env/vars.yml`|
|Services|`jophiel`, `sandalphon`, `uriel`, `jerahmeel`|`judgels-server`<br/>|
|Services|`gabriel`|`judgels-grader`<br/>|
|Services|`raphael`|`judgels-client`<br/>|
|Data storage|`/judgels/{jophiel,sandalphon,uriel,jerahmeel}/var/data`|`/opt/judgels/server/var/data`|
|Database migration tables| -`jophiel_DATABASECHANGELOG[LOCK]` (Liquibase)<br/>-`uriel_DATABASECHANGELOG[LOCK]` (Liquibase)<br/>-`jerahmeel_DATABASECHANGELOG[LOCK]` (Liquibase)<br/>-`play_evolutions` (Play framework) | `DATABASECHANGELOG[LOCK]` (Liquibase) |

To be on the safer side, we will do the following:

1. Stop all services from the old Judgels v1 deployment.
1. Spin up new VMs and then deploy a completely fresh v2 version.
1. Migrate the database and data from the old deployment to the new one.

### B. Dumping existing database

First, stop all backend Judgels services from the existing v1 deployment (`jophiel`, `sandalphon`, `uriel`, [`jerahmeel`]).

We will dump the existing `judgels` database from the old VM, and later we will restore it to the new VM. We can use `mysqldump` utility to do so:

```
mysqldump -u judgels -p judgels | gzip > judgels.sql.gz
```

Enter the `judgels` database password when asked.

### C. Deploying Judgels v2

See the [Deployment](/docs/category/deployment) page for more details. In particular, we will need to:

- Point the old domain(s) to the new core VM IP.
- Adapt the configuration values from the old `dist/env.yml` to the new `env/vars.yml`. Notice that there are some config key changes.

**IMPORTANT**: we will also need to skip automatic database migration for this deployment. Comment out the `judgels-server-migrate` role from the `playbooks/deploy.yml` playbook as follows:

```
- hosts: core
  gather_facts: false
  roles:
    - name: mysql-install
    - name: phpmyadmin-deploy
    - name: rabbitmq-deploy
    # - name: judgels-server-migrate
    - name: judgels-server-deploy
    - name: judgels-client-deploy
    - name: nginx-certbot-deploy

...
```

Deploy Judgels v2 at this point.

### D. Restoring database

After the Judgels v2 deployment is up, `judgels-server` will crash because the database is still empty. The next step is to restore the data from the old database to the new database.

1. Copy the database dump `judgels.sql.gz` to the new core VM (e.g. via `scp`).
1. Restore the database:
   ```
   gunzip < judgels.sql.gz | mysql -u judgels -p judgels
   ```
   Enter the new `judgels` database password when asked.
1. Run this command to mark the database as fully migrated:
   ```
   docker exec -it judgels-server ./init.sh db fast-forward
   ```
1. (Optional) We can remove the following tables, which are unused in v2:
   - `{jophiel,uriel,jerahmeel}_DATABASECHANGELOG`
   - `{jophiel,uriel,jerahmeel}_DATABASECHANGELOGLOCK`
   - `play_evolutions`
   - `jophiel_legacy_session`
1. (Optional) We can also remove the following legacy tables (if they still exist):
   - `uriel_contest_group`
   - `uriel_contest_group_contest`
   - `uriel_contest_group_scoreboard`
   - `jerahmeel_stats_user_chapter`
   - `jerahmeel_stats_user_course`
   - `jerahmeel_stats_user_problem_set`

### E. Migrating data

Deep copy* all data from the following to the new core VM's `/opt/judgels/server/var/data`:
* `/judgels/jophiel/var/data` from old VM containing Jophiel
* `/judgels/sandalphon/var/data` from old VM containing Sandalphon
* `/judgels/uriel/var/data` from old VM containing Uriel
* `/judgels/jerahmeel/var/data` from old VM containing Jerahmeel

*In particular, `/opt/judgels/server/var/data/submissions` should contain the combined files from `/judgels/{sandalphon,uriel,jerahmeel}/var/data/submissions`.

### F. Restarting server

Restart the stopped `judgels-server`:

```
docker start judgels-server
```

At this point, Judgels v2 should be fully operational.
