---
sidebar_position: 1
---

# Migrating from v1 to v2

:::note

There was no actual "v1" version as we only started properly versioning Judgels starting from v2.

We consider that you are on "v1" if you deployed individual legacy microservices: `jophiel`, `sandalphon`, `uriel` etc. instead of the newer `judgels-server` monolith.

:::

### A. Migration overview

Below is a table summarizing the differences between v1 and v2.

|Area|v1|v2|
|----|--|--|
|Ansible playbook env files|- `dist/hosts`<br/>- `dist/env.yml`|- `env/hosts.ini`<br/>- `env/vars.yml`|
|Services|`jophiel`, `sandalphon`, `uriel`, `jerahmeel`|`judgels-server`<br/>|
|Services|`gabriel`|`judgels-grader`<br/>|
|Services|`raphael`|`judgels-client`<br/>|
|Data storage|`/judgels/{jophiel,sandalphon,uriel,jerahmeel}/var/data`|`/judgels/server/var/data`|
|Database migration tables| -`jophiel_DATABASECHANGELOG[LOCK]` (Liquibase)<br/>-`uriel_DATABASECHANGELOG[LOCK]` (Liquibase)<br/>-`jerahmeel_DATABASECHANGELOG[LOCK]` (Liquibase)<br/>-`play_evolutions` (Play framework) | `DATABASECHANGELOG[LOCK]` (Liquibase) |

### B. Deploy Judgels v2

To be on the safer side, we recommend:

1. Stopping all services from the old Judgels v1 deployment.
1. Spinning up new VMs and then deploy a completely fresh v2 version. See the [Deployment](/docs/category/deployment) page for more details. In particular, we might need to:
   1. Point the old domain(s) to the new core VM IP.
   1. Adapt the configuration values from the old `dist/env.yml` to the new `env/vars.yml`.

### C. Migrating database

After Judgels v2 is up, the database will have the tables populated, and a superadmin user generated. The next step is to migrate the data from the old database to the new database.

1. Remove the superadmin user from the new database, in the `judgels_user` table.
1. Dump and restore the data from the old database to the new database (we can use e.g. `pg_dump` & `pg_restore`),
   - EXCEPT the following tables:
     * `{jophiel,uriel,jerahmeel}_DATABASECHANGELOG[LOCK]`
     * `play_evolutions`
     * `jophiel_legacy_session`
   - The following tables can also be excluded as they were removed some time before v2 version:
     * `uriel_contest_group`
     * `uriel_contest_group_contest`
     * `uriel_contest_group_scoreboard`
     * `jerahmeel_stats_user_chapter`
     * `jerahmeel_stats_user_course`
     * `jerahmeel_stats_user_problem_set`

### D. Migrating data

Deep copy* all data from the following to the new core VM's `/judgels/server/var/data`:
* `/judgels/jophiel/var/data` from old VM containing Jophiel
* `/judgels/sandalphon/var/data` from old VM containing Sandalphon
* `/judgels/uriel/var/data` from old VM containing Uriel
* `/judgels/jerahmeel/var/data` from old VM containing Jerahmeel

*In particular, `/judgels/server/var/data/submissions` should contain the combined files from `/judgels/{sandalphon,uriel,jerahmeel}/var/data/submissions`.
